Baisc commands used in Linux:
1. man: manual to get info about a specific command
2. clear: To clear the screen
3. pwd: Print working directory
4. cd: Change directory
5. echo: To print anything
6. whoami: To print current user
7. su: To switch to root user
8. sudo bash: To switch to root user
9. sudo: for users who do not have root permissions
10. groupadd/groupdel: To create or delete groups
11.touch: To create a new file
12. vi: Opens text editor
13. cat: Read, modify and concatenate files
14.cp: Copy files (does not delete from original location)
15. mv: Moves files( deletes from original location)
16. rm: Removes files
17. mkdir: Creates new  directory
18. rmdir: Removes directories, can remove only empty directories but with the use of appropriate flags, we can remove empty directories as well
19. grep: Used to search a file
20. sort: Used to sort alphabetically
21. sort -r: Returns result in reverse order
22. chown: Used to change the owner and group of the file
23. chmod: Used to change the permissions 
eg chmod 777 abc.txt 
The combination  of numbers is associated to users, groups and others. 
0: No permission, 1: Execute permission, 2: Write permission, 4: Read permission. So, 4+2+1=7 Stands for all permissions.
24. lsof and lsof -u <user-name>: List of open files and list of open files opened by a specific user.
25. id: Gives id of users.
26. tar: tar -cvf <file-name> <source-folder> to zip files of .tar format. tar -xvf <file-name> <source-folder> to unzip files of .tar format.
27. cut: cut -c1-2 file1.txt: will show only 1-2 cols of the text in file1.txt
28. sed: To edit the text inside a file
29. uniq: Prints only the unique lines in a file
30. watch: The watch command in Linux is used to run a specified command periodically, showing the output in the terminal. 
31. eval: used to evaluate and execute a string as a shell command.
32. history: Used to see the history of the commands used.
33. dd: The dd command in Linux is a powerful utility used for low-level data copying and conversion. 
dd if=<input_file> of=<output_file> [options] where if: input file and of: output file
34. free: Shows memory usage. free -g shows memory usage in gbs, -m in megabytes, -k in kilobytes(default)
35. ssh: ssh (Secure Shell) command is used to securely log into a remote server or device, execute commands on it, and transfer data securely over an encrypted connection. It is commonly used for remote administration and management of systems.
ssh-keygen -t rsa: generates a public private key pair to authenticate the users
36. ip: Shows network interfaces, routing tables and configurations
37. ifconfig: Used to configure or tune a system. It also assigns IP addresses. ifconfig -a: Shows all interfaces even if they are down, ifconfig -s: Shows a short list.
38. ip address: Shows the Ip addresses of all network devices.


35. 
